Add-ons | pymatgen
Skip to main content
Link
Menu
Expand
(external link)
Document
Search
Copy
Copied
pymatgen
Home
Installation
Compatibility
Change Log
Usage
Contributing
API Documentation
Add-ons
Development Team
Security Policy
References
© Copyright 2011, Materials Project
API docs
GitHub
Issues
Discourse
Matgenb Examples
Add-ons
With effect from v2022.0.3, pymatgen, pymatgen.analysis, pymatgen.ext and pymatgen.io are now
namespace packages
. You may refer to the
contributing page
. for details on how to write such packages. This page serves as a universal resource page to list known pymatgen add-ons.
It should be noted that the
pymatgen maintainers provide no guarantees whatsoever on the quality or reliability of any of the add-ons
listed here. End users should make their own assessment of the functionality and quality.
Please submit a pull request to update this page when if release a new add-on package.
Add-ons for Analysis
pymatgen-analysis-diffusion
: Provides modules for diffusion analysis, including path determination for NEB calculations, analysis of MD trajectories (RDF, van Hove, Arrhenius plots, etc.). This package is maintained by the Materials Virtual Lab.
pymatgen-analysis-defects
: Provides functionality related to defect analysis. This package is maintained by Jimmy-Xuan Shen, and officially supported by the Materials Project.
Add-ons for Input/Output
pymatgen-io-fleur
: Provides modules for reading and writing files used by the
fleur
DFT code. This package is maintained by the juDFT team.
pymatgen-io-openmm
: Provides easy IO for performing molecular dynamics on solutions with OpenMM. This package is maintained by Orion Archer Cohen.
pymatgen-io-espresso
: Provides support for the
Quantum ESPRESSO (QE)
DFT code. This package was created by
Omar Ashour
and maintained in the
Griffin Group
repository.
pymatgen-io-validation
: Provides comprehensive validation of VASP calculations. This package was created by
Matthew Kuner
and maintained in the Materials Project repository.
External Tools
If you would like your own tool to be listed here, please submit a PR. For a more complete but less curated list, have a look at
pymatgen dependents
.
Atomate2
: atomate2 is a library of computational materials science workflows.
LobsterPy
: Automatically analyze
Lobster runs
.
pymatviz
: Complements
pymatgen
with additional plotting functionality for larger datasets common in materials informatics.
DiSCoVeR
: A materials discovery algorithm geared towards exploring high-performance candidates in new chemical spaces.
rxn-network
: Reaction Network is a Python package for predicting likely inorganic chemical reaction pathways using graph theory.
Matbench
: Benchmarks for machine learning property prediction.
Matbench Discovery
: Benchmark for machine learning crystal stability prediction.
matgl
: Graph deep learning library for materials. Implements M3GNet and MEGNet in DGL and Pytorch with more to come.
chgnet
: Pretrained universal neural network potential for charge-informed atomistic modeling.
DebyeCalculator
: A vectorised implementation of the Debye Scattering Equation on CPU and GPU.
ramannoodle
: Efficiently compute off-resonance Raman spectra from first principles calculations (e.g. VASP) using polynomial and ML models.
© Copyright 2011, Materials Project